WebTitle{How can you hear?}

StepHeader{Vibrations from source to detector SymbolEndash that&apos;s how we hear.}

InsertGraphic{HgMediumslgvPID}{500}{210}

How can you hear the radio playing in all parts of the house or the bacon sizzling or the notes from the guitarist at a concert? The guitarist is up there on the stage and you are in the audience. What happens to allow you to hear the sounds from the guitar, which is at least ValueUnit{20}{metre} away?

To hear the guitarist there are two connections in the ValueUnit{20}{metre} journey:

something vibrating SymbolArrowright a connecting material SymbolArrowright you

The start, middle and end have special names:

source SymbolArrowright medium SymbolArrowright detector

For the guitarist:
- the source is the guitar
- the medium is the air
- the detector is you

You need all three to hear any sound. If there are no particles of matter between source and detector then the vibrations can't get to the detector.


StepHeader{From source to detector}

InsertGraphic{HgFromSourceToDectectorPID}{670}{340}

All sources of sound have the same kind of to-and-fro motion. All sources of sound vibrate.

Here are some sources:
voice SymbolEmdash vibration of vocal cords
sitar music SymbolEmdash vibration of a string
trumpet music  SymbolEmdash vibration of lips at the mouthpiece.

The vibrating source moves to-and-fro. This moves the medium to-and-fro, copying the motions of the source. Later, the detector vibrates as it is set in to-and-fro motion by the medium. Explaining hearing is always the story of this journey.

StepHeader{Density varies as the vibration travels}

See the patterns of high- and low- air density.

InsertGraphic{HgVibrationDensityPulseDIP}{700}{450}

The to-and-fro motion of the source pushes and pulls the air, squeezing and stretching the block of air next to the source. Later this to-and-fro motion travels away from the source as one QuoteThis{block} of air affects the next QuoteThis{block} of air. In this way, the vibrations travel out from the source through the surrounding air.

StepHeader{What sound is}

TeacherOne{But what exactly is the sound?}

TeacherTwo{It's what you hear, with your ears.}

The cone moving to-and-fro is not the sound. The cone is the source of the vibrations.

The detector is not the sound. The detector picks up the vibrations.

The to-and-fro motions in the medium are not the sound. These link a source to a detector.

