# WebTitle{Constraints and impossibilities}

## StepHeader{Springs}

Stretch a spring, and you can predict the force. There is another time-free constraint relationship. For one spring, all possibilities lie on a straight line. Change the spring: swap to a new set of possibilities.
### InsertGraphic{CPSlForceExtensionStiffnessconstrainPID}{680}{450}

You can also write this as:

ProductABC{force}{spring stiffness}{extension}

The line of possibilities is set by the spring stiffness.

## StepHeader{Impossibilities in circuits}

Build an electric loop by choosing a battery, one or more resistors or bulbs and wiring them up.  The resulting current in the loop is constrained by the choices you made.

### InsertGraphic{CPSlCurrentVoltageResistanceconstrainPID}{680}{450}

You can write this as a mathematical relationship:

FractionBdCeqA{current}{voltage}{resistance}

You could also plot the possibilities like this.

### InsertGraphic{CPSlVoltageCurrentResistanceconstrainPID}{680}{450}

Again, as a mathematical relationship

ProductABC{voltage}{resistance}{current}

This is the same relationship, just rearranged. The graphs show the same possibilities and impossibilities, just from different points of view, depending on what you want to emphasise.

## StepHeader{Impossibilities in changing motion}

Force changes motion: there is an acceleration. But you cannot get any acceleration from any force. Force, mass and acceleration shrink and grow in lockstep. These three are constrained.
### InsertGraphic{CPSlaFmGrowShrinkConstraintPID}{800}{400}

This relationship shows the same pattern as the three quantities in circuits.

FractionBdCeqA{acceleration}{force}{mass}

You can plot this constraint relationship as a line of possibility.

### InsertGraphic{CPSlForceMassAccelerationconstrainPID}{680}{450}

### InsertGraphic{CPSlMassForceAccelerationconstrainPID}{680}{450}

## StepHeader{Not always a straight line}

Plotting constrained quantities may give possibility lines that are not straight. Move away from a planet, and gravitational force is smaller: there is a constraint pattern here.
### InsertGraphic{CPSlForceSeparationGravityconstrainPID}{680}{450}

This is the famous QuoteThis{inverse square law}.

FractionABC{gravity force}{constant depending on the mass of the planet}{WordSuper{distance from centre of planet}{2}}


#catchingPhysicsSl