# WebTitle{Conservation laws}

Some fundamental constraint relationships are called QuoteThis{conservation laws}.

## StepHeader{Stuff does not get lost}

Until 1905, physicists thought you could never gain or lose mass. You do need to be careful to find all everything in your experiment, to measure its mass. So, you do need to be working with a closed system.

### InsertGraphic{CPSlMassConservationconstrainPID}{620}{450}

This is the QuoteThis{conservation of mass}.

Everything has mass: some things are also electrically charged. For those that are, the QuoteThis{conservation of charge} is another constraint relationship that says how the world is, again in a closed system.
### InsertGraphic{CPSlChargeConservationconstrainPID}{620}{450}


## StepHeader{How much motion is not lost either}

Momentum measures how much motion something has.

ProductABC{momentum}{mass}{velocity}

Work in a closed system and the total momentum does not change: you can share it out among the things in the system. Another constraint relationship, that's the QuoteThis{conservation of momentum}.

### InsertGraphic{CPSlMomentumConservationconstrainPID}{660}{450}

This seems a little more removed from the lived-in world, perhaps because it's not easy to build a momentum-meter. You might think you always have to calculate the quantity.

## StepHeader{The most famous one of all}

The QuoteThis{conservation of energy} demands calculations, and so is furthest from the lived-in world. Many of the quantities that you measure to feed into the calculations don't even seem to have any obvious similarities. That's probably one good reason why it took so long to find the law, and maybe why it’s hard to understand what's going on.

### InsertGraphic{CPSlEnergyConservationconstrainPID}{660}{450}

JustSpeak{The conservation of energy is one constraint among several, showing you what is impossible.}

#catchingPhysicsSl