# WebTitle{Force, mass and acceleration constrained}

Increase the force to get a bigger acceleration: increase the mass to get a smaller acceleration. See how force and mass constrain acceleration here.

### InsertGraphic{CPStNewton2ForceMassPID}{800}{360}

You can compare the motion of two separate things, setting the mass and acceleration for each.

### InsertGraphic{CPStNewton2ForceMassPairComparePID}{900}{450}

This constraining is an all-at-once connection. It's not first one thing, then another.

### InsertGraphic{CPStNewton2PID}{440}{440}

Not everything is possible either: some possibilities are ruled out. One way to explore possibilities is to sketch them on a graph. Fix the mass, and then vary the force to see how the force and the acceleration are related.

### InsertGraphic{CPStNewton2VaryMassconstrainPID}{800}{600}

You can also fix the force, and then vary the mass to see how the force and the acceleration are related.

### InsertGraphic{CPStNewton2VaryForceconstrainPID}{800}{600}

Constraint relationships, like this one, limit possibilities. You know a little about the world(it's more predictable) because you know some situations are just impossible. Summarise all of this learning in a mathematical relationship between the acceleration (QuantitySymbol{a}, the force(QuantitySymbol{F}), and the mass QuantitySymbol{m}.

FractionQuantityBdCeqA{a}{F}{m}

## StepHeader{A constraint relationship, animated}

You can see this relationship animated, like this:

### InsertGraphic{CPStaFmConstrain1DPID}{800}{400}

## StepHeader{Constrained vs unconstrained}

This idea of a QuoteThis{constraint relationship} is important. Lots of the knowledge that physics has about the world is like this. So here is what does happen.

### InsertGraphic{CPStaFmConstrainPID}{800}{740}

And here is what physicists have learnt does not happen.

### InsertGraphic{CPStaFmUnconstrainedPID}{800}{720}

Our lived-in world is well described by:

FractionQuantityBdCeqA{a}{F}{m}
